if you watch my channel before you know
I haven't always been a marketer in fact
for the first 10 years of my
professional career I was a teacher and
even an assistant principal for a little
bit so I get this question all the time
Brendon how do I start and grow my
career in marketing and I don't ever
want to give people like four steps this
or seven tips of that so I want to share
a clip from a conversation I had with my
buddy bill king who runs SEO and paint
acquisition adrift he also has a
non-traditional career path but is now a
really successful markers so I wanna
share a clip of a conversation we had
about it so instead of watching a video
from some marketing guru or whatever
talking about a career in marketing that
they've never actually had learned from
Bill and I right and at the end of the
video here I'm gonna give you my key
takeaways just from my conversation but
also what I always tell people about
growing and starting their own career in
marketing let's check that out so tell
me more about like in house talking
about like career stuff like going
having a I would argue a non-traditional
background just like me yeah yeah I was
I was a teacher yeah tell me tell me
about a career in SEO like I guess I'd
start with somebody curious about you
know how do I get a career in SEO I
don't have any like background in it
like how would you recommend somebody
who's interested in it or maybe has done
it for a little bit for themselves like
they want to do it full-time and have
that for me it was like I want some
alignment in my life yeah how would you
recommend they kind of go about that
what would be their first steps yeah I
think so I'll tell you how I like got
interested I got interested in because
it became a top it became interesting to
me as I was writing it as more I was
putting a ton of work into my blog and
I'm like man I would love to get more
people in front of this content not
because I thought it was like the best
but because I thought it would be cool
to meet other people and get interested
in maybe grow following so connecting
that to how SEO could help it I've
always been someone if you connect the
value of what that does I get fired up
about it right when I was in school when
I was in like high school I wasn't
really interested in math but my dad's
an engineer and like I've always liked
solving problems but when I got into
poker and took that seriously I really
the connection between the theory and
the concept right I'm sorry but the
theory in practice SEO I fell into SEO
because I wanted to get my blog out
there and when I you know interviewed at
HubSpot originally to work on their on
their their consulting team that was
what they really cared about it wasn't
like oh I ranked the site like it's
important to have the skills but like
the why behind what you do I think will
drive you past the tough points that you
that you get into because there are so
many super-smart people people waste
more than I am in the space that have
way more experience and are like out
there doing incredibly thought-provoking
things I just got back from tech SEO
boost and you want to talk about like
mind-blowing smart people but I just
love it I find I find it really
interesting and I mean who knows like
how long like traditional SEO is it's
it's today we'll be around but I think
if you stay curious and you stay hungry
and you're just infinitely curious about
the like solving tough problems you will
evolve as a marketer as well right but I
guess that's the long like interest I I
don't know if you should force yourself
to get into it but like if you've got
some type of pet project that like you
want a tie SEO into and then show that
and tell that story about that that
passion like this led me to growing this
I think it's a good way to start there's
there's no limit to the amount of
resources available online right now if
you want to get into something go do it
that's the that's the statements
nowadays so everybody should feel
enabled I think you just need to
prioritize things if that's that's
really what you want to do yeah I'm
getting more like in SEO for the rest of
us I'm getting more and more people that
are like hey I kind of joined this
course in community to you know learn
SEO for my side project or whatever but
I like also it turns out hate my job and
you seem like you really like yours and
you do this full-time and you have this
course on it that I'm taking so like I
like these this topic I'm wondering if I
should do this full-time and I've been
like talking them through like how I did
it and it was really easy for me to walk
into interviews and be like hey here's
what I'm doing now for clients here's my
system here's what I have done for
myself here's what I'm learning for
like having answers all that stuff I've
interviewed plenty of people for SEO
positions and when you ask him like
where do they learn from or you know
what are they interested in or what's
like exciting about it don't have an
answer it's like if you're not excited
about it like right like this is just
another job to you and that's fine yeah
um there's places that are happy to have
those people but you're probably not
gonna work at an interesting company or
with interesting clients you know yeah
that's a super important point and I
think if anybody's interested in SEO let
me explain to you that if you don't if
you just want to work on that
interesting like fun stuff you're gonna
have a tough time right you might like
be able to rank a lot of sites but you
need to understand the business behind
it and like why we're doing it and be
able to tell those stories I'm like
really connect with at least maybe I'm
biased because I work in-house and
that's like such a big a big highlight
but if you I think if you really want to
like scale and grow your career and this
goes beyond I think this happened and we
me with like music stuff it's like once
it became something that I had to take
from a passion and interest to like
turning into a business I didn't want to
do it anymore
and search and marketing was the
opposite it was like wow I get to do
this and I get to get paid for it like
that was the that was the light switch
whereas like something that's just a
passion and you can't turn into a
business I would just I would say that
that's probably not the path for you so
here's my two biggest takeaways number
one just start when I was in my first
digital marketing interviews for my
career as I was leaving teaching I had
something to show people right I have a
small little website about building a
photography business based on some of my
first ever client work that I've shown
over and over and over I spend maybe an
hour a month on it and it continues to
grow and I'm able to show that to people
and I was able to show that people in my
first interviews that I could be
successful in this position I also built
and grew a successful e-commerce brand
my Jiu Jitsu apparel company I sold it
in 2016
even though I stopped that business it's
still made for some great learnings and
some great stories that I could tell in
an interview or if I was looking to get
raises and I was looking for more
responsibility in my position I was
looking to grow my marketing career
again I had that experience outside of
work and then number two make sure you
are passionate about the
and not just the results not the salary
not the lifestyle not the cool clients
not the cool company none of that but
the actual work you're going to do every
single day I ruined my jiu-jitsu passion
my passion for Brazilian jiu-jitsu was
ruined by turning it into a business
right but I loved the work of it I loved
blogging I loved SEO I loved writing and
now that I do that every single day I
love what I do
those two tips combined and everything
you kind of just heard that my chat with
Bill are what got me to where I am today
it got him to where he is today adrift
it got me to where I am today a
directive doing performance marketing
for software companies leading this
amazing team that I have the privilege
to work with if you want to start and
grow your career in marketing do a
couple quick things for me number one
check out the description below so try
to put a link here in the video check
out the rest of my playlist of my
interview with Bill King I also have a
separate playlist just about starting
and growing your marketing career
including vlogs of when I was actually
leaving teaching and going and starting
marketing things that you hear a lot of
people looking back on right you're
hearing me reminisce but it you can
actually tune into when I was doing it
at that exact moment what I was thinking
what I was feeling how I was getting it
done check out that playlist as well and
if you're serious about growing your
marketing career especially an SEO take
the SEO challenge the 1 ranking away SEO
challenge you can check that out 100
days of SEO calm slash challenge link is
in the description then finally if
you're making videos like I am make sure
you check out pottery tour comm Jackie
and her team of pottery teacher who
helped me turn all of these videos in
this podcast and everything else that I
do for 100 days of SEO and SEO for the
rest of us into long-form written
content that ranks well in search you
can check them out at pottery teacher
comm and then finally like 6 calls to
action Brendon I know that breaks every
marketing rule ever where they like have
one call to action I just want to give
you a chance to take some action today
let me know in the comments below how
are you growing your marketing career
how did you get those first wins what
are those first things you did to either
start or grow your marketing career or
if you're still looking to start you're
still in a non you know non marketing
position and you want to get into this
kind of stuff let me know where you're
at right now I'd be happy to help you
troubleshoot that sort of thing I've
been branding humper don't forget to
work hard be nice people and don't get
too lost trying to create something that
matters
[Music]